>> Jafar Husain: Just as
a little bit of help,
I threw up our much simpler definition.
Not too much simpler, a little bit
simpler definition for array here of map,
just to remind us all about
how map works on an array.
So lets see if we can extrapolate
this understanding of
how map works on an array, and
implement map for observable.
It's a little bit trickier cuz
there's a little more going on, but
it's the same basic idea.
We want to take all the items in
the observable, apply a function to them,
and then take their result and
pump it into our observer.
So we're gonna create a new observable
that pulls all the items out of
a source observable,
runs them through a function,
and then pumps the result into
that new observable's observer.
So how do we get data out
of the this observable?
How do we get data out of any observable?
>> Speaker 2: Subscribe
>> Jafar Husain: Subscribe, yeah.
>> Jafar Husain: And what's gonna happen
when we get a value from the input
observable?
What are we gonna do with it?
>> Speaker 2: Call next on the observer?
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah,
call next on the observer, right.
>> Speaker 2: And project the value.
>> Jafar Husain: Right,
we don't wanna just take the value and
then send it to the observer,
cuz the we haven't really done anything.
We might as well not do a thing, right?
First we wanna run it through
our projection function.
>> Jafar Husain: Great,
that's all there is to it, or is it?
Have we forgotten anything?
>> Speaker 2: On subscribing?
>> Jafar Husain: On subscribing, sorry?
>> Speaker 2: Unsubscribing.
>> Jafar Husain: Unsubscribing,
absolutely, right.
We need to create an unsubcription.
>> Jafar Husain: So just like before,
>> Jafar Husain: So
how are we gonna unsubscribe
from this source observable?
>> Speaker 2: Do we use the unsubscribe
that's taken from the first subscription?
>> Jafar Husain: Right, we can grab
the subscription that comes out of this,
out of subscribing to the source.
And when inside of unsubscribe here,
we can call subscription done unsubscribe.
>> Jafar Husain: Are we done?
Is that it?
>> Speaker 3: Error and
complete functions?
>> Jafar Husain: Right,
if the source errors,
we don't want to swallow that error,
right?
If the source errors, they probably
wanna know about it down stream.
Our observer probably wants
to know about it, so,
>> Jafar Husain: Let's do that,
let's be good citizens, and
make sure we forward any error that
occurs in the source on to our observer.
>> Speaker 2: Do we also want
to wrap the projection and try,
just in case that throws?
>> Jafar Husain: Good, so that's, you're
absolutely right, we do wanna do that.
So one of the things I'm gonna be doing
with this observable implementation is I'm
gonna be handwaving some of the error
conditions that we can run into.
And that's explicitly to keep this
code simple, because the goal, so for
this implementation, is to help you guys
understand how an observable really works.
And in my experience, there's no better
way than actually implement in it, right?
And understand the flow, what happens
when you subscribe to an observable.
We'll watch that subscription go
all the way up to the source, and
then we're gonna watch the nexts'
flow all the way down.
And that's really the goal here, so
I don't wanna necessarily do a fully
robust implementation of preservable.
But to that point,
let's just talk about that a little bit.
What we would wanna do in a robust
implementation of observable, and
one that's truly complete we would
wanna do something like this.
We'd want to account for
the possibility that it failed.
>> Jafar Husain: All right, cuz this
projection function passed into us,
could do something dumb, like a nullity
reference, and then we can have an error.
>> Jafar Husain: Right, and then in here,
we'd wanna call
>> Jafar Husain: Right,
something like that.
So I'm not gonna put that in here, we
wanna stop the observable, we wanna error.
I'm not gonna put that in here cuz
it's gonna make the code a bit more
complicated, you got a question?
>> Speaker 2: Would we pass value or
would we pass e?
>> Jafar Husain: I'm sorry,
we'd pass e, thank you.
All right, so
that's what we're alluding to here.
So this probably a more correct
implementation,
>> Jafar Husain: But
I'm gonna hand away that a little bit,
right?
>> Jafar Husain: And the reason why I'm
gonna hand away this, the reason why it's
a little more complex, is that we
wouldn't be done after we observer.error.
We'd also have to unsubscribe,
and that gets a little bit more,
to make sure that after we call there,
we don't send anymore data.
Cuz remember how an observable works,
you can get next,
zero to, well infinite number of times.
But if that observable ends, it always
ends with either an error or a complete.
And then after that,
you get no more notifications.
So if there were some error inside of the
observable, we'd wanna send an on error.
And then we'd also wanna
unsubscribe from the source,
to make sure that the downstream
doesn't get any more notifications.
Does that make sense?
But I'm gonna leave that out here cuz it
gets a little bit more complicated trying
to unsubscribe, but
well you know what, we can do this.
This is still not completely correct, but
this is something like
what it would look like.
>> Jafar Husain: Does that make sense?
Let's take a quick look at that
understand what's going on there.
Now, there is a reason why this is not
actually necessarily gonna work 100% of
the time, but I'll leave that out for now.
>> Speaker 2: What about
if the source completes?
>> Jafar Husain: Good question,
what about the source completes, right?
If the source completes, do we want to
send a completion message down stream?
>> Speaker 4: Yes.
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah,
because otherwise, right?
The source will give us one,
two, three and then complete,
and then we'll give some transform,
three transform values downstream.
But then, we won't complete, and therefore
we won't free all of their call backs.
>> [MUSIC]
>> Jafar Husain: So this is a little bit
closer, this is still not 100% right,
but it's 99% right, Right or
not, I think for this particular class.
Is there anyone out,
what the heck, would anyone has or
guess why is this 100% right?
This might just complicate things,
but I can't help myself.
Anybody out there know why it's,
what could go wrong here?
>> Speaker 3: Like, it doesn't make sense
to me why you would want to unsubscribe,
like, in the middle of a map?
Because it could fail for
only one value, maybe?
>> Jafar Husain: That's a great question,
right?
I mean, let's say we fail at
processing just one value,
do we want to not give any more values,
right?
Well the way to think about,
and don't get me wrong,
you could completely invent a type,
my observable, that behaves that way.
But the reason why observable
doesnt behave that way,
is that it's really trying to emulate
what happens inside of a function,
just in terms of push rather than pull.
If you throw inside of a function
[SOUND] that function ends, right?
Unless you catch that function, or
catch the error and do something about it.
In which case, and we will actually show
functions you can use later on the class,
by which you can handle errors and
sort of resume.
But in practice, once that function
has erred it's done, right?
And so, that doesn't allow you to do
some things that you might wanna do, and
you could always use a different
type to accomplish those things.
And there are ways in which you
could mitigate against this as well,
by actually, try catching your
projection function, right?
If you wanted to do this, you could
try to catch your projection function.
So there's a lot of different ways
in which you could accomplish,
preventing a stream from closing,
if you got a single error.
But by default, we want behavior to match
very closely with that of a function,
does that make sense?
Anybody have a quick guess as to what,
I've got a little bit
of a problem with this.
It's a very difficult case to catch,
but the reality is,
subscribe can sometimes run synchronously.
So imagine, you've subscribe up to
an observable and then it on next,
your 10,000 values without doing
anything asynchronous at all, right?
In fact, I think we built a function
like that, did I delete it?
We had a, I deleted it, but remember,
our natural numbers function?
All it did was while true and just [SOUND]
bang numbers out into the observer.
So, the problem is, all that happens and
we never get to the part of the code
at the bottom where we return
the unsubscription, see the issue?
So it's possible here, up here,
that this subscribe is
actually just gonna run.
And this code could even get executed
before we get the subscription,
in which case it would be undefined.
Now that's complicated, [LAUGH],
it's an really edge case.
I don't want us to worry about too much,
but I think that this is a more
correct implementation,
the one we've seen right now.
So it's pretty darn close
to what it should be.
I'm actually gonna revert it to the
simpler one, just for the purpose of this.
Just for the purpose of this class,
sorry, one second, this, sorry.
That's what it would look like.
So that's very close to how you'd expect
the map function to behave, yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Do you have to
accommodate the asynchronous approach?
Could we just use set timeout zero or
something?
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah, if you were to
use set timout zero in this observable,
then you'd be guaranteed to get this
subscription before any work started,
and then this would work.
But, turns out there's good reasons
actually of why observables
are asynchronous by default, and
you can opt into them being asynchronous.
This is one of the interesting differences
between promises and observables.
For those who are aware, promises always
notify you in what's called the next tick.
I.e., there,
it's going to happen asynchronously.
It's not going to jump in
to the middle of your code,
it's gonna wait until the event loop,
gives you the next value.
And so you don't have to worry about
this situation with a promise.
If you called that then and
passed it a call back,
it's not immediately gonna call
that call back, it's gonna wait.
With an observable, things might
synchronously be pushed at you.
And I don't wanna get too much detail into
that in the class, because it really, for
the most part, it doesn't matter.
Just like an observable
might fire synchronously,
just like you can take a cold observable
and turn it into a hot observable.
You can take an observable that
always fires synchronously and
turn it into an asynchronous observable,
using something very much like
what you said, like a set timeout.
But this is more detail than I
already wanted to go into here.
And I don't wanna go into too
much more because the reality is,
it's not super important at the moment if
you guys understand how observable all
flows together.
So I'm actually gonna revert this out and
just use the simpler definition we
originally came up with, and
leave out the error handling.
But I'm glad, I'm glad you pushed me
on it, keep me honest, that's good.
>> Jafar Husain: I think this is a little
simpler to understand right now.
So, in this world, we're just gonna
assume that projection never errs.
>> Jafar Husain: Make sense?
Simpler, a little bit simpler.
Great, so I'm also gonna call
your attention to something,
which is that we're taking
the subscription object.
And we are wrapping it in
another subscription object, and
we're just calling unsubscribe on it.
>> Jafar Husain: It seems kinda wasteful,
doesn't it?
Can I simplify this program?
Why take a subscription, create a new
subscription that just calls unsubscribe
on that subscription
when it's unsubscribed?
Can we simplify this program?
>> Jafar Husain: What if I just
returned the subscription?
>> Jafar Husain: The way to think about
this is, and I'm gonna, usually, I,
this is the part of the cllas where
I might do a little role playing.
We're not gonna do anything
weird like trust exercises,
but we will do a little role
playing in the class, right?
Actually I'm gonna ask us
to just pause for a sec,
maybe we can recalibrate the camera.
And I'm gonna ask for some brave
volunteers for our little roleplay